.TH "SEC\-GATHER\-MISCONFIGS" "1" "Nov 2018" "" ""
.hy
.SH NAME
.PP
sec\-gather\-misconfigs \[en] Scan for security misconfigurations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[B]sec\-gather\-misconfigs\f[] [\f[B]\-h\f[]] [\f[B]\-\-version\f[]]
[\f[B]\-\-debug\f[]] [\f[B]\-\-format\f[] \f[I]{json,html}\f[]]
[\f[B]\-\-skip\-passed\f[]] [\f[B]\-\-config\f[] \f[I]CONFIG\f[]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\f[B]sec\-gather\-misconfigs\f[] scans the local system for common
security (and other) misconfigurations such as dangerous SSH
configurations, insecure web server configurations, permission problems,
etc.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \f[B]\-h\f[], \f[B]\-\-help\f[]
Display this help message and exit
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]\-\-version\f[]
show program\[aq]s version number and exit
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]\-\-debug\f[]
Show debug info
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]\-\-format\f[] \f[I]{json,html}\f[]
Output format.
Default is "\f[I]json\f[]"
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]\-\-skip\-passed\f[]
Do not include tests that passed
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]\-\-config\f[] \f[I]CONFIG\f[]
Configuration file for tests
.RS
.RE
.SH PLUGINS
.PP
The scan consist of plugins, each which can run multiple tests.
Some examples:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
tmp:executable
tmp:searate_mounts
webserver:content_security_policy_header
webserver:version_in_header
homedir_perms:world_readable_homedirs
homedir_perms:incorrect_skel_permissions
ssh:permit_empty_passwords
ssh:old_protocol
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Scans are Python files located in the \f[I]sec\-gather\-misconfigs.d\f[]
directory.
These files are automatically loaded and each function in the file is
executed as a test.
Each test returns a \f[I]RESULT\f[], which is included in the output.
.SH RESULTS
.PP
Each test produces a result that includes information on the test and
whether it passed or failed.
.TP
.B \f[B]desc\f[]
A short description of the what the test does.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]explanation\f[]
A short explanation of why the test matters.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]passed\f[]
Whether the test passed or failed.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]severity\f[]
The severity of the misconfiguration and its impact on security.
Rated on a scale from 0 to 5, where 0 is "informational" and 5 is
"critical".
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]results\f[]
Additional information on the results of the test such as a list of
files that were scanned.
.RS
.RE
.SH CONFIGURATION
.PP
Certain tests may require configuration by the user in order to be
useful.
For example, the \f[I]webserver\f[] tests are more helpful if a full
list of URLs served by the locally running web server is provided.
We can pass a configuration file with the \f[B]\-\-config\f[] option.
.PP
The configuration file should specify the plugin and specific test, and
a collection of key/value options to configure the test.
The format is semi\-JSON, but you can use comments and trailing
comma\[aq]s are also fine.
It would look something like this for the \f[I]permit_root_login\f[] and
\f[I]permit_empty_passwords\f[] test of the \f[I]ssh\f[] plugin:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
{
\ \ "ssh":\ {
\ \ \ \ #\ We\ have\ our\ own\ compiled\ version\ of\ OpenSSH\ server
\ \ \ \ "permit_root_login":\ {
\ \ \ \ \ \ "sshd_config":\ "/opt/patched_ssh/sshd_config"
\ \ \ \ },
\ \ \ \ "permit_empty_passwords":\ {
\ \ \ \ \ \ "sshd_config":\ "/opt/patched_ssh/sshd_config"
\ \ \ \ },
\ \ }
}
\f[]
.fi
.PP
A fully annotated configuration file can be found in
\f[I]examples/sec\-gather\-misconfigs.conf\f[].
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The default output looks like the following.
Note that most descriptions have been cut short and many tests have been
omitted to keep the example comprehensible.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ sec\-gather\-misconfigs
{
\ \ \ \ "misconfigs":\ {
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "tmp":\ {
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "executable":\ {
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "explanation":\ "Attackers\ often\ use\ temp\ dirs...",\ 
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "desc":\ "Temp\ dirs\ that\ allow\ file\ execution",\ 
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "results":\ [
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "/tmp",\ 
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "/var/tmp",\ 
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "/var/crash/"
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ ],\ 
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "passed":\ false,\ 
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "severity":\ 3
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ },\ 
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "separate_mount":\ {
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "explanation":\ "Prevent\ users\ from\ filling\ the\ filesystem...",\ 
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "desc":\ "Temp\ dirs\ not\ mounted\ on\ separate\ filesystem",\ 
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "results":\ [
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "/tmp",\ 
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "/var/tmp",\ 
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "/run/lock/",\ 
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "/var/crash/"
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ ],\ 
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "passed":\ false,\ 
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "severity":\ 2
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ }
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ },\ 
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "webserver":\ {
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "version_in_header":\ {
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "explanation":\ "...",\ 
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "desc":\ "Web\ server\ exposes\ version\ in\ \[aq]Server\[aq]\ header.",\ 
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "results":\ [
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ ],\ 
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "passed":\ true,\ 
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "severity":\ 1
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ },\ 
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ },
}
\f[]
.fi
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
Copyright 2017\-2018, Ferry Boender.
.PP
Licensed under the MIT license.
For more information, see the LICENSE file.
.SH AUTHORS
Ferry Boender.
