.TH "SEC\-REPORT" "1" "May 2017" "" ""
.hy
.SH NAME
.PP
sec\-report \[en] Generate reports
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[B]sec\-report\f[] [\f[B]\-h\f[]] [\f[B]\-\-version\f[]]
[\f[B]\-\-debug\f[]] \f[I]REPORT\f[] [\f[I]ASSETS\f[] [\f[I]ASSETS\f[]]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\f[B]sec\-report\f[] is used to generate reports using the Mako
templating language.
Information in JSON format (assets) can be read from STDIN or from
\f[I]ASSET\f[] files.
.PP
Several default reports are included for most \f[B]sec\-gather\-\f[]
tools.
An example \f[B]host_report.tpl\f[] is included which renders a HTML
page of multiple \f[B]sec\-gather\-\f[] scripts.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \f[B]\-h\f[], \f[B]\-\-help\f[]
Display this help message and exit
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]\-\-version\f[]
show program\[aq]s version number and exit
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]\-\-debug\f[]
Show debug info
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]REPORT\f[]
Path to Mako template file to render
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]ASSET\f[]
Path to JSON file to include and send to \f[I]REPORT\f[] template
.RS
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Report templates are written in the Mako templating language.
See:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
http://www.makotemplates.org/
\f[]
.fi
.PP
To render a report of open ports on a remote host as scanned by
\f[B]sec\-gather\-portscan\f[]:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
sec\-gather\-portscan\ my.example.comm\ |\ sec\-report\ sec\-gather\-portscan.tpl
\f[]
.fi
.PP
The report would then be rendered to HTML with:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
sec\-report\ report.tpl\ >\ report.html
\f[]
.fi
.PP
\f[B]ASSETS\f[] are JSON files that can be given on the commandline.
The contents of the JSON file is passed to the template and becomes
available under the name of the asset file, as given on the commandline:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ sec\-gather\-unixusers\ >\ local_unixusers
$\ ssh\ example.org\ sec\-gather\-unixusers\ >\ example_org_unixusers
$\ sec\-report\ report.tpl\ local_unixusers\ example_org_unixusers
\f[]
.fi
.PP
The template can then access these:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
%\ for\ username,\ userinfo\ in\ local_unixusers[\[aq]unixusers\[aq]].items():
\ \ \ \ <tr><td>${username}</td><td></td></tr>
%\ endfor
%\ for\ username,\ userinfo\ in\ example_org_unixusers[\[aq]unixusers\[aq]].items():
\ \ \ \ <tr><td>${username}</td><td></td></tr>
%\ endfor
\f[]
.fi
.PP
If a \[aq]\f[I]/\f[]\[aq] is present in the path, it will be converted
to \[aq]\f[I]__\f[]\[aq] (double underscores).
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
Copyright 2017, Ferry Boender.
.PP
Licensed under the MIT license.
For more information, see the LICENSE file.
.SH AUTHORS
Ferry Boender.
