.TH "SEC\-GATHER\-SSLSCAN" "1" "May 2020" "" ""
.hy
.SH NAME
.PP
sec\-gather\-sslscan \[en] Output SSL / TLS protocol and ciphers for
ports
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[B]sec\-gather\-sslscan\f[] [\f[B]\-h\f[]] [\f[B]\-\-version\f[]]
[\f[B]\-d\f[]] [\f[B]\-\-annotate\f[] \f[I]ANNOTATIONFILE\f[]]
[\f[B]\-\-ports\f[] \f[I]PORTS\f[]] \f[I]target [target ...]\f[]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\f[B]sec\-gather\-sslscan\f[] outputs a ports SSL / TLS protocol and
ciphers for one or more hosts.
It tries to follow the same grading as the Qualys SSL lab test.
.PP
It relies on \f[C]nmap\f[] and the \f[C]ssl\-enum\-ciphers\f[] nmap
script, so both of these must be installed.
The \f[C]ssl\-enum\-ciphers\f[] is, as of this date, slightly outdated
with regards to the grading of ciphers.
\f[B]sec\-gather\-sslscan\f[] does some post\-processing to apply
stricter grading per Qualys SSL lab test.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \f[B]\-h\f[], \f[B]\-\-help\f[]
Display this help message and exit
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]\-\-version\f[]
show program\[aq]s version number and exit
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]\-d\f[] / \f[B]\-\-debug\f[]
Show debug info
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]\-\-annotate\f[] \f[I]ANNOTATIONFILE\f[]
Annotation file.
A JSON file who\[aq]s information will be joined with the gathered
results.
This can be used to add custom information to results.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]\-\-ports\f[] \f[I]PORTS\f[]
TCP ports to scan in nmap format
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]TARGET\f[]
One or more hosts or IPs to scan
.RS
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Executing:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ sec\-gather\-sslscan\ example.com\ www.example.com\ 192.168.1.10
\f[]
.fi
.PP
The default output looks like this:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
{
\ \ \ \ "sslscan":\ {
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "example.com":\ {
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "443":\ [
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ {
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "protocol":\ "TLSv1.1",
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "ciphers":\ [
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ {
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "kex_info":\ "rsa\ 2048",
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "name":\ "TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA",
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "strength":\ "B"
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ }
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ ]
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ }
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ ]
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ }
\ \ \ \ }
}
\f[]
.fi
.PP
You can use the \f[C]reports/sec\-gather\-sslscan.tpl\f[] report to
generate a HTML matrix overview of hosts and ports and their protocols
and ciphers:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ sec\-gather\-sslscan\ example.com\ www.example.com\ 192.168.1.10\ |\ sec\-report\ reports/sec\-gather\-sslscan.tpl\ >\ ssl.html
\f[]
.fi
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
Copyright 2017\-2020, Ferry Boender.
.PP
Licensed under the MIT license.
For more information, see the LICENSE file.
.SH AUTHORS
Ferry Boender.
