.TH "SEC\-GATHER\-MYSQLUSERS" "1" "May 2017" "" ""
.hy
.SH NAME
.PP
sec\-gather\-mysqlusers \[en] Output MySQL users and their grants
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[B]sec\-gather\-mysqlusers\f[] [\f[B]\-h\f[]] [\f[B]\-\-version\f[]]
[\f[B]\-\-debug\f[]] [\f[B]\-\-format\f[] \f[I]{json,html}\f[]]
[\f[B]\-\-no\-conn\-error\f[]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\f[B]sec\-gather\-mysqlusers\f[] connects to a MySQL database and
outputs information about MySQL users, their connect and database
privileges.It uses a \f[C]~/.my.cnf\f[] to connect.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \f[B]\-h\f[], \f[B]\-\-help\f[]
Display this help message and exit
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]\-\-version\f[]
show program\[aq]s version number and exit
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]\-\-debug\f[]
Show debug info
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]\-\-format\f[] \f[I]{json,html}\f[]
Output format.
Default is "\f[I]json\f[]"
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]\-\-no\-conn\-error\f[]
If cannot connect to mysql, return empty response
.RS
.RE
.SH CONNECTING
.PP
\f[B]sec\-gather\-mysqlusers\f[] connects to the database using a MySQL
client configuration file.
This file should be present in your homedirectory as \f[C]~/.my.cnf\f[]
and look like this:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
[mysql]
user=root
password=s3cre3t
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Make sure the file isn\[aq]t readable for other users.
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ sec\-gather\-mysqlusers
{
\ \ \ \ "mysqlusers":\ {
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "debian\-sys\-maint":\ {
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "dbs":\ {},\ 
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "from_hosts":\ [
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "localhost"
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ ],\ 
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "rights_all_dbs":\ "Read/Write"
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ },\ 
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "mysql.sys":\ {
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "dbs":\ {
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "sys":\ ""
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ },\ 
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "from_hosts":\ [
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "localhost"
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ ],\ 
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "rights_all_dbs":\ ""
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ },\ 
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "fboender":\ {
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "dbs":\ {},\ 
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "from_hosts":\ [
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "ANY"
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ ],\ 
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ "rights_all_dbs":\ "Read/Write"
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ }
\ \ \ \ }
}
\f[]
.fi
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
Copyright 2017, Ferry Boender.
.PP
Licensed under the MIT license.
For more information, see the LICENSE file.
.SH AUTHORS
Ferry Boender.
